some design change +  moved last part of Robert's PE on mine to balance a bit. (#3)
open-make/openmakewebsite: content/blog/2021-08-31-genesis/index.en.md

## Personal experiences

### Julien Colomb:

> In December 2019, I got a reminder email from the open science officer of the Neurocure Cluster of Excellence about a [BUA call for open science](https://www.berlin-university-alliance.de/news/events/2021/210112-call-obj3.html). I started thinking about a fitting project, as I found the granting scheme interesting. I thought that open hardware would be a good fit for the call and started to look for collaborators, connecting with people I knew from the field. Finally, an internet search for `open hardware berlin` got me to the [open!next](www.opennext.eu) project homepage, and I contacted its project manager Robert Mies, with an embryonic idea. He was also planning to prepare an application for that call, and its plan was not very far from mine: it sounded like a perfect match (and it was). The rest was only nice discussions and hard work. Interestingly, it was only at the first internal project pre-kickoff meeting (at the TU Berlin, Institute for Machine Tools and Factory Management) that we met together in the flesh. 

### Robert Mies:

> >At the time when the BUA published their call, we were fully stretched on prior commitments at the TU Berlin due to intensive work on the EU project OPENNEXT and preparations for grant writing for the Green deal deadline at the end of January. However, it was very close to our ongoing activities and we felt very tempted. A few days later, Lukas Winter from the Physikalisch-Technische Bundesanstalt (PTB) called me to stress that it was a great opportunity to work together even though they could only act as an external partner as they were not eligible for funding. So, we both took part in a very helpful information session by the BUA and discussed different angles how to address this very specific and theoretic, yet application-oriented call. 

Author: ```suggestion
>When the BUA published the call, 
we were fully stretched on prior commitments at the TU Berlin due to intensive work on the EU
project OPENNEXT and preparations for grant writing for
the Green deal deadline at the end of January.
However, it was very close to our ongoing activities and we felt very tempted.
A few days later, Lukas Winter from the Physikalisch-Technische Bundesanstalt (PTB)
called me to stress that it was a great opportunity to
work together even though they could only act as an external partner
as they were not eligible for funding.
So, we both took part in a very helpful information session by
the BUA and discussed different angles how to address this very specific and theoretic,
yet application-oriented call. 
```

>

> >The next question was who could be the right partners to create a small team around the concept, ideally from two other BUA partners to maximise our chances. As the year was ending, we deferred going on a search in the new year. By chance, Julien contacted us and from the first initial conversation it became clear very quickly that he had critical knowledge on open data publishing combined with a broader mindset for free and open source culture. This was an extremely pleasant surprise. Moreover, we quickly started talking about possible use cases and Julien mentioned a former supervisor called Tim Landgraf who had more recently become a junior professor at the FU Berlin – and was working on open hardware prototypes. He quickly contacted him and conversing together about the project idea and the open hardware policy at Tim’s lab, it turned out that we could all agree on very strongly aligned goals.

Author: ```suggestion
>The next question was about the right partners to create a small team around the concept, ideally from two other BUA partners to maximise our chances. As the year was ending, we deferred the search to the new year. By chance, Julien contacted us in January and it became clear very quickly that he had critical knowledge on open data publishing combined with a broader mindset for free and open source culture. This was an extremely pleasant surprise. Moreover, we quickly started talking about possible use cases and Julien mentioned a former supervisor called Tim Landgraf who had more recently become a junior professor at the FU Berlin – and was working on open hardware prototypes. He quickly contacted him and conversing together about the project idea and the open hardware policy at Tim’s lab, it turned out that we could all agree on very strongly aligned goals.
```

>

> >Form there we met on Zoom every Friday afternoon for an hour to align on the proposal writing. One central aspect was partnering. In the last years, Julien and I had both been following the online forum of the Gathering for Open Science Hardware, a natural ally for the project and started reaching out to them as well as other possible external partners. One other very important link was the already ongoing founding of a new spin-off association of the OPENNEXT project, the Open Hardware Observatory e.V. Closely before the deadline, we also sent the abstract to the Dr Jürgen Christof, head of the university library at the TU Berlin and our partners from Wikifactory. They all gave us a positive response and it made us confident that we were on the right track. In May, the BUA communicated the good news that our efforts had actually paid off. 

Author: ```suggestion
> From there, we met on Zoom on Friday afternoon for an hour to align on the proposal writing.
A central aspect was partnering.
In the last years, Julien and I had both been following the online forum of the Gathering for Open Science Hardware,
a natural ally for the project and started reaching out to them as well as other possible external partners.
One other very important link was the already ongoing founding of a new spin-off association of the OPENNEXT project coordinated at TU Berlin, 
he Open Hardware Observatory e.V.
Closely before the deadline,
we also sent the abstract to the Dr Jürgen Christof,
head of the university library at the TU Berlin and our partner Wikifactory.
They all gave us a positive response and it made us confident that we were on the right track.
In May, the BUA communicated the good news that our efforts had actually paid off. 
```

>
>Form there we met on Zoom every Friday afternoon for an hour to align on the proposal writing. One central aspect was partnering. In the last years, Julien and I had both been following the online forum of the Gathering for Open Science Hardware, a natural ally for the project and started reaching out to them as well as other possible external partners. One other very important link was the already ongoing founding of a new spin-off association of the OPENNEXT project, the Open Hardware Observatory e.V. Closely before the deadline, we also sent the abstract to the Dr Jürgen Christof, head of the university library at the TU Berlin and our partners from Wikifactory. They all gave us a positive response and it made us confident that we were on the right track. In May, the BUA communicated the good news that our efforts had actually paid off. 

> ```

Author: ```suggestion

```
